
[5:16 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: I appreciate that you value my opinion dude. On the concept of the Joker, there are multiple parts of the human drama here that he's addressing, not all of them must be tied together, there are levels.
One part is the trickster that is often known as the devil. The interesting part about the trickster is he preys on lies and he tears everyone down wherever he sees bullshit. He sees that the world is asleep and he is different, he's not only the outcast but he also argues with God that he is a victim.
He becomes devilish in that he begins to justify his actions because he's a victim, because he didn't choose to make himself the way he is and that's why he operates the way he does.
Unlike the sleeping world, he understands truth but there's another part here,

The Not-God part. This is the part of existence that the joker is not god. Where there is light, the joker is the one apart from that light, he is the opposite of god principle, the not-god principle. The dark principle. This is the strongest part we're all connected with. We're unaware, not in the full awareness of infinity, not in perfect knowledge, wisdom, truth, goodness, light, life. Most of us are experiencing being separate from that. What I'm saying here I think goes a little farther than where watts was at during his time.

But, even being apart, we are near God, or the "Good principle", Truth and Life, it isn't far enough away that we will be dead. We're near enough to life that we are alive. However as we move farther from truth there is only one not-truth, that is lies. Thus not god, the trickster, having not truth he has lies. As Christ identifies Satan is the Father of Lies. He often talks about his own Father as being Truth on the other end. The similarity between us and 'not-god' begs the question then, "Am I Satan?", and my answer to that would be no, Satan is in a direction, and you are the pilot of a ship that can lean in that direction.
[5:27 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: I'm super grateful for watts, he's had a large influence on me. I think he had a brilliant mind for contemplation, but in his words I also don't see him having spiritual revelations. I agree with his focus in what he aims to get people to face first is death. Facing death imo will help most of us and is what most of us are trying to avoid. Watts found the liberation in that. He also obviously found that he could help people in ways including that we can rethink pain. Being able to face pain is the key factor of what can turn a bad life into a good one, because as soon as you're willing to take on pain for others, life gets better.

What I feel watts really misses, based on what I've heard in the sound of his voice, is he doesn't find love. He doesn't speak of it often. It is not a central focus of his. And I think I see why, is that there is pain to go there. I know that underneath pain, there is love. Watts I don't hear speak of this. For him, he speaks that underneath pain is great ecstacy, that childlike joy and play when the world is wonderful and fascinating. When life is life and all of life. I love him for sharing this with people, and with me. It's not directly spoken in his philosophy but I also embrace his similar way of thinking in life as to reinterpret bad things as good things.

But, I kind of saw this as I heard his lecture,
[5:38 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: I believe from my own experience that man can only head in two directions, towards hope or despair. In that lecture I heard in Alan's voice despair, and it was when he was talking about meaning. In his voice was pain and despair. I thought about it and I think that is why he did not talk too much on love.
See, for there to be love as a greater reality, there would be meaning. But from what Watts can see, there is no meaning. A meaningless reality is not a loving reality, it is cold and empty. Alan even explains this in that lecture, mentioning that if one were to think about inevitable suffering, than this whole show would be horrendous.
That's what waits for Watts when he leaves his higher awakened ecstacy state.

When he sits down to think about his life's meaning, he will find despair, because he has determined that there is no meaning. For something to have meaning it has truth. But for Alan there is no meaning, there is no truth. Life is meaningless. If he thinks about his reality, there is unjustifiable pain and suffering across an unconscious world that is by a large means insane and devastatingly destructive. There cannot be higher truth, there cannot be meaning, because he, being a man himself, cannot justify a higher truth that would have inevitable devastation and loss. Therefore to Alan there is no meaning and in this acceptance that there is no meaning, he has found a peace.
[5:55 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: See how this story of Alan sounds exactly like the story of Not-God, the joker, the trickster, and the victim.
He has woken up from the sleeping state and sees that the world is asleep. He also sees himself as losing the toin coss, and being the not-god instead of God.
What he apparently doesn't see is that he is also embracing a false narrative, a lie of despair. A lie of meaninglessness.

It really is as simple as, if there is truth and meaning, then there is not truth and not meaning. The trickster, the liar, can only see not-truth. He can't see truth because he is the not-truth principle. There is still temporary comfort in waking up to realizing he's the trickster though. For a start, he knows who he is, and that's quite a mystery solved. Secondly, nothing is really his fault anymore because he is the victim and the god he angrily doesn't believe in would be to blame for making him were there someone to make him except there's not. Third, because he has woken up where others are asleep, he actually has found some truth. Reality is truth, and as he is seeing reality with clarity, he is seeing some truth.
The irony of course is again that the liar who claims not-truth is using truth to claim not-truth.

Ironically there is a lot of truth to the joker. Even if life is meaningless, at least one can breathe. Even if things aren't going to be okay, so what. We can accept reality as it is, and in that there is liberation and freedom. There is freedom in letting go, it's called surrender. Surrendering, the one thing none of us want to do is where all of our freedom lies. The Joker, especially in pop culture does this prolifically, he has found freedom in acting without regard to consequence because he has concluded that there is no rhyme or reason for existence. The Joker is really the rationalization for a reality man cannot justify and the acceptance of his powerlessness to control his life. There is freedom when one stops trying to control life.
[6:11 AM] @0xdivi 🧞✨: All occultist magicians around Watt's time and today were encouraged to cloak and cloth themselves in the identity of the Trickster and Watts' entire character represents this, as he says, "I'm not a teacher, I'm an entertainer.", so also watt's eastern philosophy is colliding with occultist philosophy which is common.

But. To me, the Joker and the opposite of reason is the farthest end of the spectrum opposite hope man can go. No truth, meaninglessness, despair, the void.
But, that's just the first half of the journey to me. That's where the slingshot is back to truth.
The spiritual principle not-god and god in my opinion is the Christ principle, not-god made perfect in god.
That is to say, if you can follow the parable,
the not-god fell out of god. Or they say, the devil fell from heaven.
Another way to say that is the Light lost the Light. The hope lost the hope. The truth lost the truth.
But the thing about this narrative is the redemption ark of the story.
Christ goes down through hell, recovers the keys to heaven that were lost, goes back into heaven.
This is quite similar to the story of the redeemed man. He goes through hell only to find what he needed to be brought back into the light.
So, the not-god fell out of god and thankfully because truth is truth and truth is goodness, not-god can return to god because life is good. the ending is good. hope not despair.

So, the trickster imo is pretty much man justifying his existence as not-light and blaming it on light and also not wanting to go back to the light.
Where his only real solution is to surrender to that which he is not to become that which he is not currently being.
On a spiritual level, when you come into encounter with light or love, you feel that it is not of you. It is required to surrender to this something that is not of you in order for it to become you. This is obviously easier when you have already started to deal with the fear of death and also realized that you are not you.
